---
layout: post
title: Using Go Version Manager (GVM)
date: 2014-11-11 14:00:00 +0100
---

*Warning: This article is outdated and kept here for reference only. From now on I prefer to use [GoDeps](https://github.com/tools/godep) instead.*

Recently, I have been working on different go project and I need to manage different go environment relative to my projects. Coming from ruby and node, I searched for an equivalent of `rvm` or `npm` and found [gvm](https://github.com/moovweb/gvm) (not to be confuse with the Groovy enVironment Manager). GVM offer you a simple way to manage your go version and, more importantly, your `$GOPATH` !

This article aims to explain how I use gvm and how to install it.

## Installation

GVM is really simple to install, just copy-paste this command and your ready to go (no pun intented).

```sh
zsh < <(curl -s -S -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/moovweb/gvm/master/binscripts/gvm-installer)
```

Note: If you use bash, simply replace zsh with bash.

## Create your first package set

A package set is a dedicated `$GOPATH`, nothing more (well, it can be a little more but it's not in the scope of this article).

```sh
# List available go version (local)
gvm list

# List available go version (ready to be downloaded)
gvm listall

# Installing go
gvm install go1.3

# Using a version
gvm use go1.3

# Creating a pkgset
gvm pkgset create my-pkgset-name

# Configure environment variables
gvm pkgenv my-pkgset-name

# Using it
gvm pkgset use my-pkgset-name
```

## Workflow

To be consistent, I prefer to use a pkgset per project. And for each pkgset, I modify the environment (`gvm pkgenv pkgset-name`) to include the project directory in the `$GOPATH` variable.

For example, if I have this directory structure:

```
~/go
  project-name
    src
      github.com
        ...
      googlecode.com
        ...
```

I will create a `project-name` pkgset and add the path `/home/francois/go/dns-webhook-listener` at the end of the $GOPATH variable (via the command `gvm pkgenv project-name`).

Note: in the environment file we cannot use the `~` as it will not be expanded.
